README.md, before:

# Exorcist

Similar to ghost and poltergeist this one is written in golang

## Getting started

- Install Go
- Install Docker
- Install psql
  - Mac:
    - `brew install libpq`
    - `brew link --force libpq`
- Install ffmpeg
- Copy `templte.env` -> `.env` and fill in the details
- `docker compose up -d` to start the database
- `make run` to start the application

## Tools

### Api

[Gin](https://go.dev/doc/tutorial/web-service-gin)

### Database

For this application I want to try creating a database first design while also not using an ORM but rather a SQL builder.

There is still some work to do to figure out how to properly create migrations for this project though.

[raw postgres](https://golangdocs.com/golang-postgresql-example)

[Jet](https://github.com/go-jet/jet)

`jet -source=postgres -host=localhost -port=5432 -user=exorcist -password=some-secure-password -dbname=exorcist -schema=public -sslmode=disable -path=./internal/db`
If you use zsh look at the troubleshooting section for adding gopath to your path

#### Migrations

For migrations look into [golang-migrate](https://github.com/golang-migrate/migrate)

You should never have to manually run migrations as it should run when the application starts up.
To make life easier creating migrations you can install the cli of the migration tool from [here](https://github.com/golang-migrate/migrate/tree/master/cmd/migrate)

- Create migration: `migrate create -ext=sql -dir=./migrations <migration-name>`
- Run migrations: `./run-migrations.sh`

### FFMpeg stuff

[Wrapper](https://github.com/u2takey/ffmpeg-go)

### Environment

[dotenv](https://github.com/joho/godotenv)

### Troubleshooting

- If using zsh remember to add the following to your .zshrc

  ```bash
  export GOPATH=$HOME/go  
  export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/go/bin:$GOPATH/bin
  ```

Commit message:

update readme to explain migrations in the project

README.md, after:

# Exorcist

Similar to ghost and poltergeist this one is written in golang

## Getting started

- Install Go
- Install Docker
- Install psql
  - Mac:
    - `brew install libpq`
    - `brew link --force libpq`
- Install ffmpeg
- Copy `templte.env` -> `.env` and fill in the details
- `docker compose up -d` to start the database
- `make run` to start the application

## Tools

### Api

[Gin](https://go.dev/doc/tutorial/web-service-gin)

### Database

This application is using a database first approach with a sql builder instead of an ORM.
It utilizes [Jet](https://github.com/go-jet/jet)

#### Migrations

We utilize [golang-migrate](https://github.com/golang-migrate/migrate) for our migrations

Migrations run automatically when the application starts up.
It is recommended to install the cli tool for running migrations. This will allow you to run migrations from the command line without having to start up the application. [CLI migration](https://github.com/golang-migrate/migrate/tree/master/cmd/migrate)
It is also recommended that you install the [Jet CLI tool](https://github.com/go-jet/jet?tab=readme-ov-file#prerequisites) in order to update the models of the application

- Create migration: `migrate create -ext=sql -dir=./migrations <migration-name>`
- Run migrations: `./scripts/run-migrations.sh`
- Undo a migration: `./scripts/undo-migration.sh`
- Update models: `./scripts/update-models.sh`

The usual workflow would to add a migration would be:

1. Create a migration
1. Run the migrations
1. Update the models

### FFMpeg stuff

[Wrapper](https://github.com/u2takey/ffmpeg-go)

### Environment

[dotenv](https://github.com/joho/godotenv)

### Troubleshooting

- If using zsh remember to add the following to your .zshrc

  ```bash
  export GOPATH=$HOME/go  
  export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/go/bin:$GOPATH/bin
  ```
